okay so you go out on the roof at night
to look at the Stars but the whole sky
is red like it's filled with ketchup the
shooting stars making french fries in
the heavens this is incredible
but could it happen you've been asking
yourself that question your whole life
but you wouldn't know that now you just
woke up Dazed and Confused in some kind
of lab you don't remember who you are or
how you got here
well you feel okay your eyes are just a
little sore you see a bunch of
containers and cages with cockroaches
snakes
dung beetles Eagles a tarsier stares at
you with its big bulgy eyes a cat runs
under your feet before you can even
react now you hear voices coming toward
the room your intuition tells you to get
out of this place as fast as possible
the pursuers run after you you hear them
yelling stop in something else you can't
make out you find yourself in a long
corridor and burst through the fire exit
at the end you're in the middle of a
green clearing the huge building you ran
out of looks like some secret base you
climb the high fence surrounding the
complex and run into the woods after a
while you're convinced you've lost your
pursuers now you can take a break and
try to understand what's happening you
climb a high hill and look around a
gorgeous red sunset momentarily gives
you some inner peace you spot a town far
off in the distance the main thing is to
get there before dark you're running
becomes a job than a brisk walk and soon
you're barely moving you're exhausted
and that's when you see silhouettes of
people with flashlights coming up on you
you don't have the strength to run
further so you decide to hide in a tall
tree they pass below without noticing
you but that's when you look up and see
something that almost makes you fall
over the Sun has already gone below the
horizon but the sky is flooded with red
you see the moon shining bright yellow
thousands of orange yellow white and
blue stars speckled the sky what's going
on here this can't be real
has something happened with the Earth's
atmosphere or maybe you're on another
planet entirely the combined beauty and
fear of space
painted red brings a tear to your eye
you climb down and build a fire it's
late and getting cold you don't remember
where you got these skills but you do it
without matches and lighters all sticks
and stones but the flame it's
transparent almost invisible it's
because of their orange red glow coming
from the sky the green leaves of the
trees mixed with the red above and look
Brown you could observe this new world
for days but the sounds of twigs and
leaves crunching pulls you out of your
thoughts fear gives you strength and you
run to the town car horns alarms the
sounds of civilization grow louder
you're almost there
finally the forest ends and you find
yourself on the ground an ambulance
passes you but you can hardly see it's
red warning lights work anyway because
they're masked by the red glow from
space suddenly bits of memory come back
to you you're a scientist and now you
know why it's red it seems a super
powerful star has formed near the earth
it's the only reasonable answer space is
usually black because stars are too far
away from each other and from our planet
the closest they get is four light-years
away and that trip would still take 137
years
to get from A to B the light they emit
simply can't illuminate that vast space
in between but it can and does when you
shorten the gap you know this because
it's exactly why the Horsehead Nebula is
surrounded by reddish pink space the
immense light from the nearby blue stars
gets absorbed by hydrogen the most
common substance in the universe then
charged hydrogen atoms collide with
electrons and red light is what we get
if a blue star 75 thousand times more
powerful than our Sun has somehow come
near earth then our planet know our
entire solar system is in danger you
need to find people and warn them as
soon as possible you run along the road
and that's when you see your pursuers
come out of the woods where you just
were you speed up and find yourself on a
busy street you want to shout for
everyone to hide in their homes lock up
in their basements but you've noticed
something everybody's completely calm
the night sky is red and all these
people aren't even bothered in the
slightest it seems to be normal for them
maybe you really are on another planet
you didn't even notice you'd stopped
moving and that's when the people from
the base catch up with you they don't
look mean on the contrary they're happy
to see you why did you run away what
happened one of them asks you tell me
why space red you shot back they look at
you with a smile and say that you did it
did what you're confused beyond
comprehension
that's when the rest of your memories
come flooding back you're a scientist
who's been researching vision especially
in animals whose eyesight is hundreds of
times better than humans
cockroaches snakes dung beetles Eagles
tarsiers cats you've managed to combine
the properties of their unique vision
and integrate it into human eyes your
eyes now
you can see not just super far and
clearly you also see in different
spectra gamma ultraviolet infrared
energies no other human eye can pick up
your vision has been getting better
every hour since the experiment the
first color you see on hyped up
sensitivity is red space is black as it
always was but you can see the glow from
the Horsehead Nebula and other super
powerful stars that light up hydrogen
atoms the only side of
is that you temporarily lost your memory
so you didn't recognize your lab
partners the red spectrum is just the
beginning your vision will only advance
further allowing you to see other colors
and energies power lines and microwaves
will glow the night sky for you will
turn into an incredibly beautiful mix of
hues so yeah
outer space could be read in one case if
your vision allows you to see it
[Music]